# Pancreatic-beta-cell-regeneration-by-THR-123
In situ pharmacological induction of pancreatic beta-cell regeneration by THR-123, a cyclic peptide with BMP-7-like activity

Summary
--------
This repository contains coding scripts utilized for the analysis of Longitudinal scRNAseq of human pancreatic slices datasets. The purpose of providing the code here is to allow for transparency and robust data-analysis reproducibility. Most of the steps used for data analysis and visualization have been optimised for an average computing environment . Some analyses however, require a high-performace computing environment (see computing environment). The methodology has already been described extensively in the manuscript. However, this analysis relies heavily on powerful scRNAseq analysis algorithms developed by the Satija lab, namely Seurat (Butler et ahttps://github.com/JDBLab/Longitudinal-scRNAseq-of-human-pancreatic-slices/blob/main/README.mdl., 2018: Nature Biotechnology; Stuart et al., 2018: Cell) (for a complete list of dependencies and code utilized see analysis & visualization programs).

Overall design
----------------
We conducted scRNAseq analysis of murine pancreatic slices generated from either non-diabetic or alloxan-induced diabetic mice. mPSs (n=6) from non-diabetic mice were sequenced after 5 days of culture (positive control). Slices from diabetic mice were either treated with THR-123 for 5 days (experimental group) or left untreated for the same period (alloxan, negative control) prior to sequencing. The experiment was repeated three times, and cells pooled for each of the three groups. In total, ~32,000 single cells were analyzed using the 10X Genomics 5’ Single Cell platform. Libraries were filtered for quality control and subjected to unsupervised clustering, integration and differential gene expression analysis using Seurat v4.1.1. We analyzed individual datasets as well as the integration of the alloxan (negative) control and the THR-123 (experimental) datasets to perform dynamic RNA velocity studies.

Downloading Data files
-----------------------------
Data files utilized in this analysis have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), gene expression data repository at the NIH. Data are part of the GSE223713 high-thoroughput sequencing repository and can be found here. Data files have been renamed allowing for sample-origin information to be incorporated. Supplementary files contain Cellranger output files, which have been renamed to ensure clarity. Change file names (of filtered information) to 'matrix.mtx.gz', 'barcodes.tsv.gz' and 'features.tsv.gz' after seperating files into donor specific folders. This is necessary, to allow Seurat to read these files. 

Data sub-structure
------------------------
We povide raw FASTQ files generated from single-cell cDNA libraries sequenced by the Illumina sequencing platform, along with unfiltered post-alignment count files generated by the Cellranger v3.0.1 software. In addition we also provide a gene expression matrix containing data on filtered gene counts across our dataset.

FASTQ files
------------------
These are sequencing reads generated by the Illumina sequencing platform. Files contain raw reads and sequencing efficiency information. These are the input files for the Cellranger software.

Cellranger output (processed gene-counts of single cells/barcodes)
---------------------------------------------------
This contains data outputs of Cellranger v3.0.1, which was run using default settings. Code used to analyze data is a part of this repository. This data contains filtered/unfiltered count files for gene expression across barcodes/cells.

Data analysis of scRNAseq of mouse pancreatic slices datasets
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preliminary data-analyses involving 3 groups de-identified scRNAseq of mouse pancreatic slices datasets are included in this file. This includes data thresholding, normalization, subsetting, linear dimensionality reduction (PCA), non-linear multimodal dimensionality reduction (PCA/UMAP), clustering, and data visualization.

Analysis and visualization programs
--------------------------------------------
Cellranger software from 10X Genomics:Cellranger  
R and R's integrated developmental environment RStudio:     
R version 4.1.3 (2022-03-10) (x64 bit)
Rstudio v2022.7.1.554, release_name- "One Push-Up" (x64 bit)
RTools v3.3.X

Computing environment
-----------------------
Hardware and OS environment for running Cellranger    
Environment 1  
Processor: Intel Sandy Bridge E5-2670 (16cores x 16 threads)    
RAM: 25GB   
OS: CentOS 6.5    
Environment 2   

Hardware and OS environment for running Seurat     
Analysis was performed/replicated on each of these computing systems, and ran optimally.  

Processor	Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6230R CPU @ 2.10GHz   2.10 GHz  
Installed RAM	96.0 GB (94.6 GB usable)  
System type	64-bit operating system, x64-based processor  
Edition	Windows 10 Enterprise 
OS build	19044.2486  
Experience	Windows Feature Experience Pack 120.2212.4190.0 

Hardware integrated into the Triton Supercomputing array at the University of Miami   
Hardware and OS environment for running RNA velcoty- scVelo and Velocyto  
IBM Power9/Nvidia Volta – 6 Racks 
IBM declustered storage – 2 Racks 
96 IBM Power 9 servers  
30TB RAM (256/node) 
64 bit scalar 
400 TB shared home  
2 @ 1.99 TB ssd local storage 
IPython             8.4.0 
jupyter_client      7.3.5 
jupyter_core        4.11.1  
Python 3.9.12 | packaged by conda-forge | (main, Mar 24 2022, 23:25:27) [GCC 10.3.0]  
Linux-4.14.0-115.el7a.ppc64le-ppc64le-with-glibc2.17  

Contributors
------------------
Silvia Alvarez-Cubela - University of Miami - to contact please Email  
Mayur Doke - University of Miami - to contact please Email  
The JDB Lab - Github - Diabetes Research Institute, UM

Lead Contacts
---------------------
Dr. Juan Dominguez-Bendala PhD. - Diabetes Research Institute, UM to contact please Email                                                                                 
Dr. Ricardo Pastori PhD. - Diabetes Research Institute, UM  to contact please Email

Acknowledgements
-------------------
R01 DK138210	BMP signaling and regenerative plasticity: Correlating dynamic scRNAseq and real-time anatomical remodeling in T1D pancreatic slices  
R01 DK130846  Single-cell longitudinal analysis of regeneration in human pancreatic slices  
U01DK120393   High-resolution characterization of human ductal progenitor cells and their regeneration potential  
ADA award 1-19-ICTS-078, and JDRF award 3-SRA-2024-1518-S-B

If this was useful to you please dont forget to cite, star and fork this repository
